.TH waveform-compare 1  "January 9, 2013" "version 0.9" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
waveform-compare \- A tool to identify duplicate audio files at the waveform level
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B waveform-compare <first.wav> <second.wav> [--channel=c] [--block-size=N] [--threshold=X]

.SH DESCRIPTION
waveform-compare is a tool that splits two audio files into equal sized blocks and outputs the correlation for each block (a_i,b_i), if a and b was the input.

This program produces output that can be used to do quality assurance.
If the verbose flag is set the program outputs an off-set value and a
match value for each 'chunk' where the two audio files by default are
split into 1 second chunks.

Output:
block i: <match value> <off-set>

Explanation of 'offset':
Denote the first input file as A[0...n-1],
and the second input file as B[0...n-1].
Let the output be positive and denote it k
This means the best match is when we overlay the two files such that
A[k] = B[0], A[k+1] = B[1] ...
If the offset was negative (-k) the best match would be when
A[0] = B[k], A[1] = B[k+1] ...

Pictures to describe the two situations. First k >= 0, second k < 0:

Picture 1:
   0 1 ... k ... n-1
  +-----------------+
  |                 |          A
  +-----------------+

          +-----------------+ 
          |                 |  B
          +-----------------+
           0 1 .. .. ... n-1

Picture 2:
           0 1 .. .. ... n-1
          +-----------------+ 
          |                 |  A
          +-----------------+ 
   0 1 ... k ... n-1
  +-----------------+
  |                 |          B
  +-----------------+

One way to use these numbers is to verify that all chunks have the
same off-set and that all chunks have a good match value (close to 1)

The program outputs either 'success' or 'failure' followed by an
explanation Success is when all blocks matched within 500 samples of
the first block's offset On failure there will be a message saying
during which timestamp the offset did not line up.

.SH OPTIONS
.B "--block-size=N"
is the (integer) number of seconds pr block. By default N=1.

.B --threshold=X
is a threshold value in [0,1], by default X=0.98. The threshold
indicates how well two files should match to be accepted with 1
meaning perfect match.

.B --channel=c
is an integer giving the channel according to the wav
specification. By default c = 0.


Note that all the tools will need access to write to a file called
<tool>.log where various information about a run will be stored.

.SH EXIT STATUS
waveform-compare returns 0 if the files was found to be identical. It will return nonzero otherwise
.SH AUTHOR
Jesper Sindahl Nielsen <jsn@statsbiblioteket.dk>
